README.md, before:

# Marmot

:warning: [WIP] Note: This project is still in the transfer stage to an open-source project. Thus, many changes will be made in the near future.

## What is Marmot?

```Marmot``` (MAteRialMOdellingToolbox) is a C++-library aiming to provide robust and efficient implementations of state-of-the-art constitutive models for different materials, in particular for quasi-brittle materials such as (sprayed) concrete, rock and soils. It uses modern, object-oriented programming techniques and provides a generic interface that can be easily wrapped into your application. Standard interfaces for commercial finite element codes, such as Abaqus, Plaxis and open source codes like MOOSE or OpenSees, are ready-to-use available.

## Gallery

![Truss in compression using a micropolar von Mises plasticity model](share/truss.gif)

Truss in compression using a micropolar von Mises plasticity model.

![Plane strain compression using a micropolar Drucker-Prager plasticity model](share/plane_strain_gmdruckerprager.gif)

Plane strain compression using a micropolar Drucker-Prager plasticity model

![Triaxial compression using an orthotropic jointed rock plasticity model](share/MultiJoint_Rock.gif)

Triaxial compression using an orthotropic jointed rock plasticity model

## Third-party dependencies

If you would like to have the full experience with ```Marmot``` the Eigen (>3.3.8) and the autodiff (>0.6.0) libraries have to be installed. 

```bash
git clone https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen.git
cd eigen
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
sudo make install
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/autodiff/autodiff.git
cd autodiff
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DAUTODIFF_BUILD_TESTS=OFF -DAUTODIFF_BUILD_PYTHON=OFF -DAUTODIFF_BUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF -DAUTODIFF_BUILD_DOCS=OFF ..
sudo make install
```

## How to install Marmot

```Marmot``` including all submodules can be installed with the following steps:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/MAteRialMOdelingToolbox/Marmot/ 
cd Marmot
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
sudo make install
```

CMake options ```CORE_MODULES```, ```ELEMENT_MODULES``` and ```MATERIAL_MODULES``` 
allow to specify the modules which should be compiled, either by passing a 
```semicolon seperated list```, option ```none``` or option ```all``` (default).
For instance:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/MAteRialMOdelingToolbox/Marmot/ 
cd Marmot
mkdir build
cd build
cmake \
    -DCORE_MODULES='MarmotMechanicsCore;MarmotFiniteElementCore' \
    -DELEMENT_MODULES='none' \
    -DMATERIAL_MODULES='all' \
    ..
make
sudo make install
```

CMake option ```CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX``` allows to specify the installation directory.
For instance:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/MAteRialMOdelingToolbox/Marmot/ 
cd Marmot
mkdir build
cd build
cmake \
    -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/your/special/installationdirectory \
    ..
make
make install
```

## How to use Marmot with Abaqus

The [Abaqus-MarmotInterface](https://github.com/MAteRialMOdelingToolbox/Abaqus-MarmotInterface) allows to use ```Marmot``` in Abaqus simulations.

## How to use Marmot with MOOSE

The [chamois App](https://github.com/matthiasneuner/chamois) allows to use ```Marmot``` directly in [MOOSE](https://github.com/idaholab/moose).
A singularity container recipe is [available](https://github.com/matthiasneuner/chamois-singularity).

## Documentation

The documentation can be found under [https://materialmodelingtoolbox.github.io/Marmot/](https://materialmodelingtoolbox.github.io/Marmot/).

## License

This library is freely available under the LGPLV2 license. Please find the details in the ```LICENSE.md``` file.

## Authors

The principal developers are (in alphabetical order):
* [Alexander Dummer](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/dummer.html.de) [@alexdummer](https://github.com/alexdummer) (since 2019), University of Innsbruck
* [Thomas Mader](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/mader.html) [@maderthomas](https://github.com/maderthomas) (since 2019), University of Innsbruck
* [Matthias Neuner](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/neuner.html) [@matthiasneuner](https://github.com/matthiasneuner) (since 2015), University of Innsbruck
* [Magdalena Schreter](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/schreter.html) [@mschreter](https://github.com/mschreter) (since 2015), University of Innsbruck

Contributors are (in alphabetical order):
* [Andreas Brugger](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/brugger.html.de) [@theBruegge](https://github.com/theBruegge), University of Innsbruck
* [Peter Gamnitzer](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/gamnitzer.html.de), University of Innsbruck

## Publications (selected)
The results of the following publications were obtained using ```Marmot```:

* On discrepancies between time-dependent nonlinear 3D and 2D finite element simulations of deep tunnel advance: A numerical study on the Brenner Base Tunnel.
M Neuner, M Schreter, P Gamnitzer, G Hofstetter - Computers and Geotechnics, 2020
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compgeo.2019.103355](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0266352X19304197)

* On the importance of advanced constitutive models in finite element simulations of deep tunnel advance.
M Schreter, M Neuner, D Unteregger, G Hofstetter - Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology, 2018
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tust.2018.06.008](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0886779818301950)

* A 3D gradient-enhanced micropolar damage-plasticity approach for modeling quasi-brittle failure of cohesive-frictional materials.
M Neuner, P Gamnitzer, G Hofstetter - Computers & Structures, 2020
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compstruc.2020.106332](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045794920301358)

Commit message:

updated Readme for anaconda users

README.md, after:

# Marmot

:warning: [WIP] Note: This project is still in the transfer stage to an open-source project. Thus, many changes will be made in the near future.

## What is Marmot?

```Marmot``` (MAteRialMOdellingToolbox) is a C++-library aiming to provide robust and efficient implementations of state-of-the-art constitutive models for different materials, in particular for quasi-brittle materials such as (sprayed) concrete, rock and soils. It uses modern, object-oriented programming techniques and provides a generic interface that can be easily wrapped into your application. Standard interfaces for commercial finite element codes, such as Abaqus, Plaxis and open source codes like MOOSE or OpenSees, are ready-to-use available.

## Gallery

![Truss in compression using a micropolar von Mises plasticity model](share/truss.gif)

Truss in compression using a micropolar von Mises plasticity model.

![Plane strain compression using a micropolar Drucker-Prager plasticity model](share/plane_strain_gmdruckerprager.gif)

Plane strain compression using a micropolar Drucker-Prager plasticity model

![Triaxial compression using an orthotropic jointed rock plasticity model](share/MultiJoint_Rock.gif)

Triaxial compression using an orthotropic jointed rock plasticity model

## Third-party dependencies

```Marmot``` requires the Eigen (>3.3.8) and the autodiff (>0.6.0) libraries:

```bash
git clone https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen.git
cd eigen
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
sudo make install
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/autodiff/autodiff.git
cd autodiff
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DAUTODIFF_BUILD_TESTS=OFF -DAUTODIFF_BUILD_PYTHON=OFF -DAUTODIFF_BUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF -DAUTODIFF_BUILD_DOCS=OFF ..
sudo make install
```

For ```anaconda``` users, those libraries can also be installed from the channels.

## How to install Marmot

```Marmot``` including all submodules can be installed with the following steps:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/MAteRialMOdelingToolbox/Marmot/ 
cd Marmot
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
sudo make install
```

CMake options ```CORE_MODULES```, ```ELEMENT_MODULES``` and ```MATERIAL_MODULES``` 
allow to specify the modules which should be compiled, either by passing a 
```semicolon seperated list```, option ```none``` or option ```all``` (default).
For instance:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/MAteRialMOdelingToolbox/Marmot/ 
cd Marmot
mkdir build
cd build
cmake \
    -DCORE_MODULES='MarmotMechanicsCore;MarmotFiniteElementCore' \
    -DELEMENT_MODULES='none' \
    -DMATERIAL_MODULES='all' \
    ..
make
sudo make install
```

CMake option ```CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX``` allows to specify the installation directory.
For instance:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/MAteRialMOdelingToolbox/Marmot/ 
cd Marmot
mkdir build
cd build
cmake \
    -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/your/special/installationdirectory \
    ..
make
make install
```

## How to use Marmot with Abaqus

The [Abaqus-MarmotInterface](https://github.com/MAteRialMOdelingToolbox/Abaqus-MarmotInterface) allows to use ```Marmot``` in Abaqus simulations.

## How to use Marmot with MOOSE

The [chamois App](https://github.com/matthiasneuner/chamois) allows to use ```Marmot``` directly in [MOOSE](https://github.com/idaholab/moose).
A singularity container recipe is [available](https://github.com/matthiasneuner/chamois-singularity).

## Documentation

The documentation can be found under [https://materialmodelingtoolbox.github.io/Marmot/](https://materialmodelingtoolbox.github.io/Marmot/).

## License

This library is freely available under the LGPLV2 license. Please find the details in the ```LICENSE.md``` file.

## Authors

The principal developers are (in alphabetical order):
* [Alexander Dummer](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/dummer.html.de) [@alexdummer](https://github.com/alexdummer) (since 2019), University of Innsbruck
* [Thomas Mader](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/mader.html) [@maderthomas](https://github.com/maderthomas) (since 2019), University of Innsbruck
* [Matthias Neuner](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/neuner.html) [@matthiasneuner](https://github.com/matthiasneuner) (since 2015), University of Innsbruck
* [Magdalena Schreter](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/schreter.html) [@mschreter](https://github.com/mschreter) (since 2015), University of Innsbruck

Contributors are (in alphabetical order):
* [Andreas Brugger](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/brugger.html.de) [@theBruegge](https://github.com/theBruegge), University of Innsbruck
* [Peter Gamnitzer](https://www.uibk.ac.at/bft/mitarbeiter/gamnitzer.html.de), University of Innsbruck

## Publications (selected)
The results of the following publications were obtained using ```Marmot```:

* On discrepancies between time-dependent nonlinear 3D and 2D finite element simulations of deep tunnel advance: A numerical study on the Brenner Base Tunnel.
M Neuner, M Schreter, P Gamnitzer, G Hofstetter - Computers and Geotechnics, 2020
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compgeo.2019.103355](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0266352X19304197)

* On the importance of advanced constitutive models in finite element simulations of deep tunnel advance.
M Schreter, M Neuner, D Unteregger, G Hofstetter - Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology, 2018
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tust.2018.06.008](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0886779818301950)

* A 3D gradient-enhanced micropolar damage-plasticity approach for modeling quasi-brittle failure of cohesive-frictional materials.
M Neuner, P Gamnitzer, G Hofstetter - Computers & Structures, 2020
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compstruc.2020.106332](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045794920301358)
